All right, good evening, and due to the wintry weather that we're experiencing, we made the
decision to go ahead and record the message earlier this evening than our normal scheduled
time at 7 p.m., and so we're going to continue with our study.
The last few weeks we've been dealing with the doctrine of Christ, and so if you would
take your Bible and turn to the book of 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter number 2, and as we've
been studying the doctrine of Christ, we answered that question that Jesus asked the disciples
in Matthew chapter number 16.
You'll recall a few weeks ago we dealt with that, and he said this,
Whom do men say that I am?
Of course, the disciples said some say that you're John the Baptist, some say Jeremiah
or Isaiah or one of the other prophets, and Jesus then said to his disciples,
But whom do you say that I am?
And of course, Peter stood up with great confidence, and he said,
Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And what a great declaration that was made there by Peter, and I think about Peter making
that declaration, and I think about Peter and how we can relate to him, and then as
we think about Peter being used of the Lord in the start of the early church, you can
see the way God used him through the book of Acts, and then as he was used of God to
write 1 and 2 Peter, and we read 1 Peter and just read about the way in which Peter is
seeking to encourage these believers, and he says this in chapter number 2, in verse
number 2, As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby,
he says, If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious, I think Peter understood
personally how gracious our God is, and he's speaking to these believers, and he's speaking
about the graciousness of our God, and then if you skip down to verse number 7, it says,
Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious, I think each of us would agree, those of us
that know the Lord Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, that indeed, he is precious, and many
have written songs about our Savior and just our relationship to him, he's a wonderful
Savior to me, and we think about that song, and we think about the song, Jesus is all
the world to me, and we've actually used that as our title last Wednesday evening, Jesus
is all the world to me, that was part 1, today will be a continuation of that study, and
so if you are taking notes, Jesus is all the world to me, part 2, and as we think about
this declaration of the songwriter, Jesus is all the world to me, why? And as believers,
I think that we would agree with the songwriter that Jesus indeed is all the world to me,
but why is that? I do not in any way suggest that the reasons that I will provide you with
are an exclusive list, or excuse me, an exhaustive list, we find that there are many, many reasons
that we could give as to why Jesus is all the world to me, I have, for the purpose of
this study, tried to narrow it down to five particular areas, and in our study last Wednesday
evening, part 1 of Jesus is all the world to me, we said this, why? Because of who He
is, He is God, and we dealt with the humanity of the Lord Jesus Christ, we then went and
dealt with the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, that He indeed is God in flesh, and what a
joy to know who He is, then we looked at this, Jesus is all the world to me, why? Because
of His mighty power. As you study through the Word of God, you understand that God has
all power, you understand that God has demonstrated His power in a multitude of ways throughout
the Scriptures, and as you zero in on the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ
as recorded in the Gospel records, you have the privilege of being able to see the power
of God, and when we dealt with the mighty power of the Lord Jesus Christ, we said this,
and we looked at examples throughout the Scriptures, He demonstrated His power over
the demons, He demonstrated His power over disease, He demonstrated His power over death,
and He demonstrated His power over nature. I'm so thankful that our God is omnipotent,
that He has all power, in fact Jesus said before He ascended to heaven, all power is
given unto me in heaven and in earth, and then He gave the great commission to the disciples.
So as we continue our study this evening, Jesus is all the world to me, part two, we
would say this, reason number three, because of His death, burial, and glorious resurrection.
I'm going to invite you to go to the book of Matthew in the 27th chapter, here in Matthew
chapter number 27, we'll look through a lengthy portion of Scripture that God has given us
with regard to this, the death and the burial and the resurrection of our Savior, and as
you're turning to Matthew 27, I'm going to remind you of what Paul said to the believers
in the region of Galatia, in Galatians 3 and verse 13, Paul said, Christ hath redeemed
us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is
everyone that hangeth on a tree. When we think about the death, burial, and resurrection
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we understand the power of what we're dealing with, and
the gospel is, as Paul would say in 1 Corinthians 15, the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection
of Jesus Christ. And so when we think about Jesus is all the world to me because of His
substitutionary atonement, and of course He was buried in a borrowed tomb and He rose
conquering sin, death, and the grave, we must consider the suffering at Calvary. In Matthew
chapter number 27, if you'd begin reading with me in verse number 27, the Bible says
this, then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall and gathered unto
Him the whole band of soldiers, and they stripped Him and put on Him a scarlet robe, and when
they had plaited a crown of thorns, they put it upon His head and a reed in His right hand.
They bowed the knee before Him and mocked Him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. Verse
30 tells us that they spit upon Him, took the reed, and smote Him on the head. And after
they had mocked Him, they took the robe off from Him and put His own raiment on Him and
led Him away to crucify Him. And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by
name, Him they compelled to bear His cross. And when they were come unto a place called
Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a skull, they gave Him vinegar to drink mingled with
gall, and when He had tasted thereof, He would not drink. And they crucified Him and parted
His garments, casting lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet.
They parted My garments among them, and upon My vesture did they cast lots. And sitting
down they watched Him there, and set up over His head His accusation written, This is Jesus,
the King of the Jews. Then were there two thieves crucified with Him, one on the right
hand and another on the left. And they that passed by reviled Him, wagging their heads."
Notice what they said in verse number 40,
Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself, if thou be
the Son of God, come down from the cross. I've not made much commentary through the
reading of this portion of Scripture, but I'd like to pause just for a moment and mention
something from verse number 40. I am so thankful that as I read this portion of Scripture,
I'm so thankful that Jesus did not come down off of that cross. They say, Save thyself,
if thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. He indeed is the Son of God. He
is God in flesh, yet He stayed upon that cross, and I'm so thankful that He did. It was necessary
for Him to stay upon that cross in order to pay for your sin and my sin and the sin of
the world, and I'm so thankful that He did not come down off of that cross. I'm thankful
that He finished the work that God gave Him to do. He paid for my sin and your sin. Notice
in verse 41, Likewise also the chief priests mocking Him with the scribes and elders said,
He saved others, Himself He cannot save. If He be the King of Israel, let Him now come
down from the cross, and we will believe Him. I'm thankful that He did save others. I'm
thankful that as we discussed last Wednesday evening, speaking about His mighty power and
how that He demonstrated His power over the demons and over disease and over death and
how He delivered many, many people, and what a joy to see His power revealed through those
mighty miracles, and I'm thankful that He did save many. I'm thankful that it was not
a matter of that He could not save Himself, it was that He would not save Himself. Why?
Because He understood that which was before Him. He understood the work that He had to
complete, in fact, all year long.
we've dealt with Hebrews 12
as being our theme looking unto Jesus.
And what a great theme it's been.
I've thoroughly enjoyed studying
through the book of Hebrews.
The Bible says looking unto Jesus,
the Author and Finisher of our faith,
who for the joy that was set before Him
endured the cross,
despising the shame,
and is set down at the right hand
of the throne of God.
I'm thankful that He did not come down
from that cross.
These that are speaking here
according to v. 41,
it's the chief priest mocking Him
with the scribes and elders.
And notice what they say
at the end of v. 42.
If He were to come down and save Himself,
they would believe Him.
Oh, He had performed countless miracles
and had demonstrated to them
on a number of occasions
that He is God.
And yet, they did not believe.
I'm mindful of the account in John 9.
That's the account in which God gives us
when the man that was born blind
that He's healed.
And of course, Jesus healed this man
and there was much debate
with regard to this healing.
And they had questioned the man many times
with regard to what had happened.
And He eventually,
seeming as if He's tired of hearing
the same questions,
He says, one thing I know
that whereas I was blind,
now I see in John 9 v. 25.
And then in v. 27,
He answered these that were questioning Him
and He said, I have told you already,
and you did not hear.
Wherefore would you hear it again?
Will you also be His disciples?
Then they reviled Him and said,
thou art His disciple,
but we are Moses' disciples.
We know that God spake unto Moses.
As for this fellow,
we know not from whence he is.
And the man that was born blind,
He answered these religious leaders
and said unto them,
why, herein is a marvelous thing
that ye know not from whence he is,
and yet, he hath opened mine eyes.
They had seen so many miracles.
Christ had manifested,
demonstrated to them
that He was the Messiah,
and yet, they're going to say
that if He were to come down and save Himself,
then they would believe the reality
is that they had been given much revelation.
Verse 43 back in Matthew 27.
He trusted in God, let Him deliver Him now.
If He will have Him,
for He said, I am the Son of God.
The thieves also which were crucified with Him
cast the same in His teeth.
Verse 45, now from the sixth hour,
there was darkness over all the land
unto the ninth hour.
And about the ninth hour,
Jesus cried with a loud voice saying,
Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?
That is to say, my God, my God,
why hast Thou forsaken Me?
Some of them that stood there
when they heard that said,
this man calleth for Elias.
And straightway one of them ran
and took a sponge and filled it with vinegar
and put it on a reed and gave him to drink.
The rest said, let be.
Let us see whether Elias will come to save him.
Jesus, when He had cried again
with a loud voice,
yielded up the ghost.
As you look at verse 50,
and the Bible says that He cried again
with a loud voice,
yet Matthew does not record
what it is that He said.
And I believe that as you compare Scripture with Scripture,
you would conclude that what He proclaimed
at this particular moment
was that great statement,
It is finished.
Verse 51,
And behold, the veil of the temple
was rent in twain from the top to the bottom.
The earth did quake and the rocks rent.
We begin to say and agree with the songwriter
that Jesus is all the world to me.
I would say, yes, He is.
Because of His death, His burial,
and His glorious resurrection.
The substitutionary death of Jesus Christ
that He went and willingly paid
the ultimate price to pay for your sin
and for my sin.
The burial is now in view.
If you skip down to verse 57,
the Bible says when the even was come,
there came a rich man of Arimathea
named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple.
He went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus.
Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.
When Joseph had taken the body,
he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth
and laid it in his own new tomb,
which he had hewn out in the rock.
And he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulcher
and departed.
There was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary
sitting over against the sepulcher.
Now the next day that followed,
on the day of the preparation,
the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate.
In verse number 63,
this is what these religious leaders say to Pilate.
They say, sir, we remember that that deceiver said
while he was yet alive,
after three days, I will rise again.
It saddens my heart to read verse 63
and to see how these religious leaders
refer to my Savior as a deceiver.
The Bible says that Jesus proclaimed in John 14
in verse number 6,
I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No man cometh unto the Father but by Me.
The emphasis from that verse with regard to this statement
is the fact that He said He was truth.
God is not a man that He should lie.
We understand that our God is not going to be a deceiver,
a liar, and yet they come to Pilate with this terminology
and then they say, here's what He said,
after three days I will rise again.
Well, He said that because He was going to do that.
We know that in just a few moments
we're going to read the passage that records for us
the resurrection of our Savior,
but you notice that they come
and they now say, command, in verse 64,
therefore that the sepulcher be made sure
until the third day.
Lest His disciples come by night and steal Him away
and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead,
so the last error shall be worse than the first.
Pilate said unto them, you have a watch,
go your way, make it as sure as ye can.
So they went and made the sepulcher sure,
sealing the stone and setting a watch.
They were concerned that the disciples might come by night
and steal away the body of Jesus
and proclaim that He'd been risen again.
The reality is that the resurrection of Jesus Christ
had nothing to do with the disciples.
They had no part in the resurrection.
These religious leaders, they set the watch
and they tried to keep people out,
but the reality is that Jesus would rise,
conquering sin, death, and the grave,
and He would walk out of that borrowed tomb.
In fact, as we think about the section of Scripture,
we enter straight into the declaration of the resurrection
and we think of, and I've often referred to it as,
the glorious resurrection.
Notice in verse number one of chapter 28,
in the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn
toward the first day of the week,
came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary
to see the sepulcher.
And behold, there was a great earthquake,
for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven
and came and rolled back the stone from the door
and sat upon it.
Verse three says, his countenance was like lightning
and his raiment white as snow.
Notice verse number four,
these folks that they used to set the watch,
they'll be referenced later
in the passage of Scripture as well.
You could read that later in verses 11 through 15,
but notice what happens to these keepers.
These were the men that were selected
by these religious leaders to keep the sepulcher.
The Bible says this, and for fear of him,
the keepers did shake and became as dead men.
The angel answered and said unto the women,
verse five, fear not ye,
for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified.
He is not here, for he is risen, as he said.
Those are three precious words to me.
He always does what he says he will do.
He had made the proclamation that he would rise again.
And sure enough, he rose, conquering sin,
death, and the grave.
The invitation that is mentioned in verse number six,
at the end of the verse,
the Bible says that this angel speaks to the women
and says, come, see the place where the Lord lay,
and go quickly and tell his disciples
that he is risen from the dead.
And behold, he goeth before you into Galilee.
There shall ye see him.
Lo, I have told you.
And they departed quickly from the sepulcher
with fear and great joy,
and did run to bring his disciples word.
Wow.
I love reading about the resurrection of our Savior.
As I read about the crucifixion of our Savior,
my heart is saddened to think about what he suffered
and endured for me.
But I'll tell you, if you ask me this evening,
why is Jesus all the world to you?
If you sing the song that the songwriter has written,
Jesus is all the world to me.
And someone were to come and say, why?
Why is Jesus all the world to me?
I hope that you'd say, well, because of who he is.
He's God.
Because of his mighty power.
Because of his death, burial, and glorious resurrection.
We understand as Acts would record for us,
turn to Acts one just for a moment, if you will.
We understand that after his resurrection.
that He ascended to heaven.
I love the way the book of Acts
puts it in verse 3
with regard to the resurrection.
It says in Acts 1 and verse 3,
"...to whom also He showed Himself alive
after His passion
by many infallible proofs,
being seen of them forty days."
And speaking of things pertaining to the Kingdom of God,
during that period of time,
He would give instruction to the disciples.
He would, of course, give the Great Commission,
even recorded here in verse 8 of Acts 1.
And then, of course, He would ascend up to heaven.
The Bible says in verse 9,
"...and when He had spoken these things,
while they beheld, He was taken up,
and a cloud received Him out of their sight.
And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven,
as He went up, behold,
two men stood by them in white apparel,
which also said,
Ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into heaven?
This same Jesus,
which was taken up from you into heaven,
shall so come in like manner
as ye have seen Him go into heaven."
Of course, today, we're still awaiting
the return of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
I don't say it in that manner to say that it's been delayed.
We know that He will not tarry His coming.
He'll come exactly on time,
just as He came the first time.
In fact, during this Christmas season,
we celebrate the first coming
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
But He will return.
And I'm looking for the return of my Savior,
and I believe that it will happen just as He said.
So this evening,
we see because of His death, burial, and glorious resurrection.
Number four, if you're taking notes,
we've said because of who He is,
because of His mighty power,
because of His death, burial, and resurrection.
Number four, we'd say this,
because of His work today.
You understand that as Jesus conquered sin, death,
and the grave, and rising from the dead,
and then ascending up into heaven,
that He is still ministering today,
and He's engaged in a work today
that ought to cause us to rejoice greatly.
In fact, throughout this calendar year in 2020,
we've studied through the book of Hebrews.
And as we've studied through the book of Hebrews,
we have been confronted with much of that work
that our Savior is doing even now.
And if you'd take and turn to Hebrews chapter number four,
I'd like to read just a few verses of Scripture with you
with regard to His work today.
I'll make mention of four different aspects
of His work today.
Number one, He's our great High Priest.
He's our great High Priest.
In Hebrews chapter number four and verse number 14,
the Bible says,
seeing then that we have a great High Priest
that is passed into the heavens,
Jesus, the Son of God.
Let us hold fast our profession,
for we have not an High Priest
which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities.
But as in all points tempted,
like as we are yet without sin,
let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace,
that we may obtain mercy
and find grace to help in time of need.
Over the next several chapters in the book of Hebrews,
chapters five through 10,
you'll begin to read about the priesthood
of the Lord Jesus Christ
and how it's superior to the Aaronic priesthood.
Of course, we've studied through these chapters
and I've preached through them here in 2020.
That content is on our website,
if you'd be interested in going back
and listening to some of those messages.
I'm so thankful,
when I think about the work of Christ today,
that He is my great High Priest.
Notice, not only is He our great High Priest,
He's our intercessor.
The Bible says in Hebrews chapter number seven,
a few pages over in your Bible,
in verse number 25.
We understand He's speaking about Jesus here.
Notice in verse number 22,
by so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
And they truly were many priests
because they were not suffered to continue
by reason of death.
We understand that in the Old Testament,
the death of the High Priest and so on and so forth.
Then notice in verse 24,
but this man, because he continueth ever, why?
Because he conquered sin, death and the grave.
He rose in victory, hath an unchangeable priesthood.
Wherefore, verse 25,
He is able also to save them to the uttermost
that come unto God by Him.
I'm thankful for salvation,
for redemption through the blood.
Then notice the last phrase of the verse,
seeing He ever liveth to make intercession for them.
I'm thankful that He is our intercessor.
He's making intercession for us.
Notice, not only is He our great High Priest,
our intercessor,
number three, He's our advocate.
Turn to the book of 1 John, if you will.
1 John chapter number one reminds us
of the sweet fellowship that we can have with our Savior.
And I'm so thankful for the privilege of fellowship.
We find that He speaks about the fellowship
that we have with Him.
Verse three, that which we have seen and heard,
declare we unto you,
that you also may have fellowship with us,
and truly our fellowship is with the Father,
and with the Son, Jesus Christ.
These things, right, we unto you,
that your joy may be full in His presence,
His fullness of joy, according to the psalmist.
We find not only the privilege of fellowship,
but we find the promise of forgiveness.
The Bible says in verse number nine,
if we confess our sins,
He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins
and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
I'm thankful for that great promise of forgiveness.
In the Old Testament, we see that the Bible says
that God is a God who is ready to pardon,
ready to forgive.
With Thee there is forgiveness.
Here we have this promise of forgiveness.
We enter into the second chapter,
and we find in verse number one,
the Bible says, my little children,
these things write I unto you,
that ye sin not.
Now we understand biblically
that we'll never reach a place of sinless perfection.
We'll never be sinless until this mortal puts on immortality
as I preached on Sunday morning this past week.
But the reality is as a child of God,
I ought to be sinning less each day.
What do I mean by that?
Well, as I understand the truth of the Word of God,
as I yield myself to Christ,
as I walk in the Spirit
so that I do not fulfill the lust of the flesh,
as I am crucified with Christ,
I should be sinning less and less.
But we have found it to be so that we continue to sin
because we have this flesh.
So we find that though we have this flesh
and though we sin and we seek to not sin,
the promise that is attached here is so precious
because the Bible says,
and if any man sin,
and you say I'm trying to sin less,
but I'm still sinning,
and I'm thankful that the Bible tells us
that if any man sin,
we have an advocate with the Father,
Jesus Christ the righteous.
Oh, how precious this truth is.
The Bible tells us that the enemy,
one of the ways in which Satan is described
is as being the accuser of the brethren.
He'd like to cast accusation at the people of God.
And I'm thankful that though sin no longer
has dominion over me,
though I can have victory through the Lord Jesus Christ,
and though I seek to walk in the Spirit
so that I do not fulfill the lust of the flesh,
that when I sin,
I have an advocate with the Father,
a representative.
One who pleads my case.
One who says,
I paid for that.
What a joy, what a blessing.
We think about His work today.
I rejoice that He's my great High Priest.
He's our intercessor.
He's our advocate.
Finally, as we think about His work today,
He's preparing a place for me.
Turn back to the Gospel of John, if you will,
to the 14th chapter.
I want to draw your attention here
to a precious promise in the Word of God.
In John 14,
Jesus is speaking to His disciples.
Of course, He would soon go to the cross of Calvary.
It begins the passage by saying,
let not your heart be troubled.
You believe in God, believe also in Me.
My Father's house are many mansions.
If it were not so, I would have told you.
I go to prepare a place for you.
I'm so thankful for that truth.
He then says this in verse 3,
and if I go, He just said He was,
and so since He's going
and preparing a place for you,
He says this, I will come again
and receive you unto Myself.
That where I am, there ye may be also.
You know, He's preparing a place for us.
He's preparing a place for me, for you.
It reminds me of what Paul says
to the believers in Thessalonica
in 1 Thessalonians 4,
as he is giving them truth
with regard to the rapture of the church.
And it says in 1 Thessalonians 4,
in verse 16,
The Lord Himself shall descend from heaven
with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel,
with the trump of God.
The dead in Christ shall rise first.
Then we which are alive and remain
shall be caught up together with them in the clouds
to meet the Lord in the air.
And so shall we ever be with the Lord.
Wherefore, comfort one another with these words.
And how comforting these words are for the child.
of God. As I begin to think about this study of the doctrine of Christ and I
think about the truth that Peter declared to the Lord Jesus Christ on
that day nearly 2,000 years ago when Jesus after receiving their answer whom
do men say that I am he says but whom say ye that I am and Peter said thou
art the Christ the Son of the Living God we find that as we look at that
declaration that years later Peter as he would sit down under the inspiration of
the Holy Spirit of God and pen the words of Scripture that he would say in 1st
Peter chapter number 3 and verse number 7 excuse me chapter number 2 in verse
number 7 unto you therefore which believe he is precious Jesus is all the
world to me I know that we sing the song I believe that each one of us would
would proclaim it Jesus is all the world to me but if someone heard you say that
if someone heard you sing that song and say why why is Jesus all the world to
you what would you say what would your answer be how long would your list be
as I mentioned in this really gonna be a three-part study of Jesus is all the
world to me I'm just looking at five different aspects but it's not an
exhaustive list and I would challenge you to sit down and meditate upon this
thought meditate upon that wonderful hymn that Jesus is all the world to me
and say why is he all the world to me and if he is all the world to me I
ought to be able to give answer as to why he's all the world to me how he's
changed my life how he's affected me and impacted me and so on and so forth and
we begin to articulate the answer to the question when someone says why is Jesus
all the world to you and if he is all the world to you we would repeat the
words of John the Baptist when he declared he must increase I must
decrease not only that but we would proclaim to a lost and dying world the
truth of who Jesus is there's as much confusion today as there was when Jesus
first asked that question to his disciples as recorded in Matthew 16 our
people all around us that have no idea who Jesus is and for those of us that
would say Jesus is all the world to me we ought to be equipped and we ought to
have zeal to go out and tell people how wonderful of a Savior he is he is
precious he is all the world to me father we love you we thank you for
loving us we thank you for the truth of your word we thank you for the power of
your word we pray that you would use your word in our hearts in our lives
help us were to be conformed to the image of Christ help us to be good
representatives of the Lord Jesus Christ well thank you for all that you'll do in
our lives it's in Christ's name we pray amen again we've pre-recorded this
message so that you could receive our Wednesday night prayer and Bible study
with the weather wintry weather we did not want to have our family be in
jeopardy and so this is being pre-recorded and we're hoping to be a
blessing to you we've also attached to the email with the link for this YouTube
video we've also included the weekly prayer bulletin a couple of three
updates from our missionaries it's on the back of the bulletin and then of
course some praises and some prayer requests and if you would be mindful
spend some time in prayer with your family I'm so thankful that we serve a
God who hears and answers prayer trust you have a blessed evening I'm gonna
walk back here and turn this off and trust you have a blessed evening the
Lord keeps you safe and we're praying for you and we miss you and Lord
willing we'll have the privilege of seeing you on Sunday morning as we
worship together 1030 on Sunday morning the Lord bless you have a blessed
evening